process/to-do.md, before:

# To-dos

## General Snake
- ~~Walls are misaligned~~
- ~~Text is misaligned~~
- ~~Head collision is delayed by one~~

- Delay on death sound
- Tint the apple to the different classic LPAG colours? Kind of cute?
- There's always more bug checking in the banana stand

## Sisyphus

- Yes this is what should happen ~~What should happen if you don't eat an apple soon enough? Should they "roll back down"?~~
- ~~Fix the instructions to say USE ARROW TO CONTROL SSSYSSYPHUSSS har har~~
- ~~Remove ability to get to the menu~~
- ~~Continue work on implementing the rollback of an apple (should happen for reaching top and for not eating the next apple within a small number of ticks, should it be reversable or it just happens and that's that?)~~
- ~~Force rollback at top...~~
- ~~What is wall/self death? Respawn with no fuss?~~

## Prometheus

- Oopsie, got so enthused I didn't write any todos for the majority of this ~~Get it working~~
- Trying that out for now ~~Should the hover go vertically up? It's a bit complicated... maybe the eagle should come in at a slower tick? How? Eagle tick?~~

## Tantalus

- ~~Snake in the middle, apple above apple below~~
- ~~Apple retreats outside walls based on your distance from it~~
- ~~Death is a reset~~

## Danaids

- ~~After apple-eat, drain points (delay with a timer, have a sound per tick)~~

Commit message:

Working menu
- The game is alllllmost done?
- Some niggles remain around timing, I wonder how hard they will be to chase down?

process/to-do.md, after:

# To-dos

## General Snake
- ~~Walls are misaligned~~
- ~~Text is misaligned~~
- ~~Head collision is delayed by one~~

- General oddness around the tick and triggering things
    - Delay on apple sound? 
    - Delay on death sound?
- I think the game Tint the apple to the different classic LPAG colours? Kind of cute?
- There's always more bug checking in the banana stand

## Sisyphus

- Yes this is what should happen ~~What should happen if you don't eat an apple soon enough? Should they "roll back down"?~~
- ~~Fix the instructions to say USE ARROW TO CONTROL SSSYSSYPHUSSS har har~~
- ~~Remove ability to get to the menu~~
- ~~Continue work on implementing the rollback of an apple (should happen for reaching top and for not eating the next apple within a small number of ticks, should it be reversable or it just happens and that's that?)~~
- ~~Force rollback at top...~~
- ~~What is wall/self death? Respawn with no fuss?~~

## Prometheus

- Oopsie, got so enthused I didn't write any todos for the majority of this ~~Get it working~~
- Trying that out for now ~~Should the hover go vertically up? It's a bit complicated... maybe the eagle should come in at a slower tick? How? Eagle tick?~~

## Tantalus

- ~~Snake in the middle, apple above apple below~~
- ~~Apple retreats outside walls based on your distance from it~~
- ~~Death is a reset~~

## Danaids

- ~~After apple-eat, drain points (delay with a timer, have a sound per tick)~~

## Zeno

- Thank you, I did. See the journal for philosophizing. ~~Make it~~
